The following are notes related to the conduct of the Agdrift Model updating and testing of the code.

1. The Agdrift model has been essentially rewritten to conform, in terms of functionality, to the Tier I calculations
   facilitated through the Agdrift model user interface.  The Tier I calculations include Tier I Aerial, Tier I Ground,
   and Tier I Orchard(Airblast(Agriculture).
2. The exception to the above statement is that this python version of the model does not perform back calculations.
   That is, in the original Agdrfit interface the user could specify a 'fraction of applied' pesticide related to an
   unknown distance from the edge of the application area and the model would calculate the distance, along with the
   other standard outputs.
3. The database of pesticide deposition rates at specific distances downwind of the application area (center line) are
   used to perform the calculations average deposition across the area of a downwind pond/wetland/terrestrial field.
   The database is a SQL database entitled 'sqlite_agdrift_1994ft.db' and is located in the python agdrift test directory
   within qed/ubertool_ecorest/ubertool/ubertool.
     a. The database contains downwind deposition data for 13 'scenarios'.  Each scenario represents a combination of
        aerial, ground, or airblast application.  Aerial applications are included for each of four droplet sizes
        (very fine to fine, fine to medium, medium to coarse, and coarse to very coarse).  Ground application scenarios
        include combinations of low/high boom height and very fine/fine to medium/coarse droplet size (four in all).
        The airblast application includes normal, dense/sparse, vineyard, and orchard (five in all).
     b. there are 163 distances between 0 and 1994 feet from the edge of the application field.  In the orginal database
        provided by OPP there were 161 distances between 0 and 997 feet.  We added two distances between 997 and 1994 to
        allow for extrapolation beyond 997 feet.  We did this because it 'appears' that the Agdrfit model (that we are
        reproducing in Python) performs calculations for distances beyond 997 feet.  Because we do not have access to the
        original Agdrift VB software we cannot confirm exactly what and how the extrapolation is conducted.  As an example,
        if the user specifies an aerial application for a standard EPA Defined Pond (which is 208.7 feet wide) at a downwind
        distance of 900 feet then the distance to the furthest side of the pond would be (900 + 208.7 = 1108.7ft).  This would
        require that an extrapolation for the pond beyond 997 would be required.  From our testing of the
        Agdrift interface (and knowing that the OPP Adgrift model is based on linear extrapolation between distances) we
        calculated an effective slope of a line from the 997 foot deposition value to a distance of 1994 feet.  1994 feet
        represents the total distance downwind from the application area to the leading edge of the pond (or wetland or
        terrestrial field) plus the width of the area (which can also be specified up to 997 feet).  The effective line
        slope from 997 to 1994 feet was used to specify deposition at two additional distances in the SQL database.  The
        two additional distances are 1495.5 and 1994 feet.  To determine the slope of the line from 997 to 1994 we configured
        a Tier I Aerial application with an EPA Defined Pond.  We specified the downwind distance to the pond to be 997
        and we specified the width of the pond to be 997 feet.  The Agdrift model returns an average deposition value over
        the width of the pond.  Thus, if we assume linearity then the average value between 997 and 1994 will be the actual
        deposition at 1495.5 feet (the midpoint of the pond).  This deposition allowed us to calculate the slope and by
        extending the slope we calculated a deposition value at 1994 feet.  These values were added to the database to
        allow our Python model code to perform the the necessary extrapolation in the Python code).
4. To test our Python code we use the OPP Agdrfit model (originally written in VB and FORTRAN).  We run the OPP Agdrift
   model for a set of specific scenarios (some provided by OPP) , using the reults to compare to our running the same
   scenarios in the Python code.  Conceptually, this works fine, however, integration testing proved a challenge. The
   OPP Agdrift scenario results are presented in the userinterface and as such is formatted (i.e., the full set of
   significant digits is not included). The OPP Agdrfit interface employs a few formats; including a) rounding to four
   decimal places when value is less than 1 and greater than 1e-4, b) using scientific notation with 3 significant
   digits, and c) rounding to 2 decimal places when value is greater than 1. To emulate these output value formats we
   rounded values that are less than 1 and greater than 1e-4 to four decimal places.  Numbers smaller than 1e-4 and
   greater than 1 were left unchanged (i.e., not rounded).  This strategy does not fully resolve issues with comparing
   results between the two models but comes very close.  Further tweaking can be done.  This necessarily will impact
   our comparison within the integration tests (we've used 1e-5 for all models up to this point).
5. While generating output values from the OPP Agdrift model (to compare to the Python model) it was noticed that the OPP
   Agdrift model gives two different results when running the 'EPA Defined Pond' vs 'User Defined Water Body' (when
   using the same default width and depth values associated with the 'EPA Defined Pond'). This happens
   when the 'Distance to Water Body from Edge of Application Area' is greater than approximately 800ft (it is interesting
   that a value found in the OPP Agdrift code -AGDRIFT1.BAS- listed for a variable named 'MaxDownwindDist' is set at
   795 m  -- note: it looks like meters rather than feet so its relevance here is uncertain).  For example, if the user
   specifies Tier I Aerial/Aquatic Assessment and a 'Distance to Water Body from Edge of Application Area' of 900ft
   (and an 'Active Rate' of 0.5) and selects 'EPA Defind Pond' the resulting value for 'Initial Average Concentration'
   is 328.48ng/L.  If the user then selects 'User Defined Pond' and specifies the 'Downwind Water Body Width' to be
   208.7feet and an 'Average Depth' of 6.56ft (note: these values are the same as the defaults for 'EPA Defined Pond')
   then the resulting 'Initial Average Concentration' is 332.97ng/L.  The difference between these to model results
   increases as the user increases the 'Distance to Water Body from Edge of Application Area' (out to the allowable
   maximum of 997ft).  These differences are not due to possible differences in precision in specifying the
   'Downwind Water Body Width' or 'Average Depth'. Interestingly, the Python model results match the OPP Agdrift
   model results related to the 'User Defined Water Body' selection.  It is unclear why this difference occurs.
